Core Concepts week 1 day 2 updated (#28)
microsoft/win-student-devs: docs/30DaysOfPWA/core-concepts/02.md

Progressive Web Apps **must** be served from an HTTPS endpoint to ensure secure communications, provide user privacy safeguards and guarantee content authenticity. HTTPS is mandatory for **Service Workers** - the core PWA technology required for reliable, offline-friendly operation.

> Want to audit your PWA for security? Look at the _Security_ tab on the PWABuilder report. Here's what that looks like for the sample PWA.

![DevTools Tips - Report Card](_media/dtt-security.png)

Getting a good Security score is the simplest requirement to meet. Just **publish your PWA to an HTTPS-enabled endpoint**. You have two options:
 * Use a hosting service that supports HTTPS by default. Cloud Providers like [Azure](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.2/azure.microsoft.com) offer options like [Azure App Service](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.2/azure.microsoft.com/services/app-service/web) that can help. 
 * Use your own hosting options, and create the required certificates using free services like [Lets Encrypt](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.2/letsencrypt.org/docs).

> Note that Microsoft Edge will let you use `http://localhost` (non-HTTPS) to preview and test your PWA locally - _for debugging purposes only_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that browsers will let you use `http://localhost` (non-HTTPS) to preview and test your PWA locally - _for debugging purposes only_.
```

---

## 2. Service Workers

[Service Workers](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.2/docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/service-workers) are a special type of [Web Worker](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.2/www.w3schools.com/js/js_api_web_workers.asp), a JavaScript task that can run in the background (for asynchronous or long-running operations) without impacting the performance of the page. 

Service Workers make your PWA _reliable_ and _network-independent_, ensuring that it provides a usable experience under flaky network conditions or when device is offline (ex: _Flight Mode_). It achieves this with two key capabilities:
 * **Fetch API**. Service Workers can intercept, modify and respond to all network requests from the application dynamically. They can listen for events indicating network changes, adapting their fetch responses based on the runtime conditions and app context.

>  * **Cache API**. Service Workers can access client-side cache and asynchronous storage options (like IndexedDB, Local & Session Storage) to proactively store resources for offline access or performance efficiency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * **Cache API**. Service Workers can access client-side Cache as well as asynchronous storage options (like IndexedDB) to proactively store resources for offline access or performance efficiency.
```

Reviewer: `localStorage` & `sessionStorage` are synchronous APIs and unavailable to Service Workers.

> Let's see Service Workers in action with our sample PWA

Take a look at the _Inspect_ tab that we opened in Task 1 - and click on the Service Workers tab. 
 * Check the _Offline_ button, taking the browser offline.  
 * Revisit the [DevTools Tips](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.2/devtoolstips.org) home page. _You should be able to view it even though you are offline_.
 * Click an artcle. What happens? _You may get the "You Are Offline" message if you have not visited it before_. 
 * Uncheck the _Offline_ button. Revisit the article (it loads) then check _Offline_ again. _You should be able to move between Home and Article pages and see them both offline_.

That's the power of Fetch (interception) and Cache (storage) delivering a native-like experience (works offline) for the PWA!

> Want to audit your PWA for Service Worker support? Look for the tab in the PWA Builder report. Here's what that looks like for DevTools Tips. 

![DevTools Tips - Report Card](_media/dtt-sw.png)

> We see it meets basic requirements (_has a service worker_) and implements some recommended and optional behaviors (_works offline_, _uses periodic sync_, _uses background sync_) for a better PWA experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We see it meets the basic requirements (_has a service worker_) and implements some recommended and optional behaviors (_works offline_, _uses periodic sync_, _uses background sync_) for a better PWA experience.
```

We'll talk about Service Worker operations (scope, lifecycle) and caching strategies (for offline and performance needs) in a later post. 

---

## 3. Web App Manifest

> So we've made the PWA secure and ensure reliable, network-independent operation. But how do we make it _installable_ like a native app? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So we've made the PWA secure and ensured reliable, network-independent operation. But how do we make it _installable_ like a native app? 
```

> That's where the [Web Application Manifest](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.2/docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/web-app-manifests) comes in. It's a [W3C Specfication](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.2/www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest) helps. It's a specification that defines **a JSON-based file format** that provides developers with a **centralized place to put metadata** associated with apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's where the [Web Application Manifest](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.2/docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/web-app-manifests) comes in. It's a [W3C Specification](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.2/www.w3.org/TR/appmanifest) defining **a JSON-based file format** that provides developers with a **centralized place to put metadata** associated with apps.
```

From a PWA developer perspective, it's a 2-step process:

>  * Create your _manifest.json_ file and associate it with your PWA by referencing it in the `<head>` section of your HTML page (see below). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Create your _manifest.json_ file and associate it with your PWA by referencing it in the `head` of your HTML page (see below). 
```

 * Populate the file with _required_ properties (for minimal PWA) and other _recommended or optional_ properties (for a best-in class PWA experience). 

```html
<link rel="manifest" href="/manifest.json">
```

> Let's see this in action with our sample PWA

Go back to the _Inspect_ tab we opened in Task 1.
 * Scan the `Elements` tab - do you see the link in `<head>`?

>  * Scan the `Applications` tab - do you see the `manifest.json` file?

Author: ```suggestion
 * Scan the `Applications` or `Network` tab - do you see the `manifest.json` file?
```

>  * Scan the `Applications` tab - do you see the `manifest.json` file?

Reviewer: They could also see when it’s loaded in the Network tab :-)

Here's what that looks like for DevTools Tips. Note that the dashboard also shows you currently populated Manifest properties grouped into categories (Identity, Presentation, Icons etc.) for convenience. We'll dive into the details in a future post. 

![DevTools Tips - Report Card](_media/dtt-manifest.png)

> Want to audit your PWA for Manifest support? 

> Look at your PWABuilder report from Task 2. Here's what that looks like for DevTools Tips. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Look at your PWABuilder report from Task 2. Here's what that looks like for DevTools Tips:
```

![DevTools Tips - Report Card](_media/dtt-manifest-report.png)

The tool groups properties into _Required_, _Recommended_ and _Optional_ categories. Use it to prioritize and fix missing properties interactively to generate an updated _manifest.json_. Watch for [Week 3: DevTools](../dev-tools/) for more insights into this tool.

> How does Web App Manifest support Installability?

It governs how the PWA looks and behaves when installed on your target device platform. It is used by the browser to determine that a website is an installable PWA - and to provide the relevant [install experience](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.2/docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/ux#installing-a-pwa) to users. It also supports direct installs from app stores when you [publish your PWA](https://aka.ms/learn-PWA/30Days-1.2/docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps-chromium/how-to/microsoft-store).

## Summary

![Summary Day 2 - Deconstructing PWA.](_media/deconstruct-pwa.png)

That was a lot to cover, but here are the core takeaways:

>  - PWAs use open web technologies to implement progressive-enhancement techniqiues in a cross-brower compatible way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - PWAs use open web technologies to implement progressive-enhancement techniques in a cross-brower compatible way.
```
